i need space to think and i want to think through writing. dont worry aboput spelling errors or gramatical mistakes. you're not going to read this agian. i just want to get it out of my head.

anyway. 

the main topic of discussion is how i want to proceed with game dev. let's assume i've solved the problem fo fantasizing and i want to actually have an action plan. i need to get into the mind of a manager. how does a game studio's CEO proceed with this. 

lets list out what i want the end goal to be. 
pie in the sky. the journalist game with every mechanic that ever existed. 
where i am. barely a demo finished. 
this is not a judgement, its just an assessment.

now lets figure out how to go from a to z. 

ok, so i have the first step ready. which is to create a test room. we'll put a pin in how to get that done, but what after that?

i want to make smaller games each with one mechanic. i'm sure i can be creative and figure that out. 

i can use the test room as a base. movement, camera, ui sound, controls. i could also use a base template as well. let's forgot about learning (cz we hate school anyway) and focus on actual tangible projects. 

actually, test room is a good base for testing stuff, but i can still use a "game template" for a kickstart on all the games i build. remember [[The Pottery Experiment]]. we want to get any many reps in as possible. 

dont worry about assets, we'll beg, borrow steal or make it ourselves. 


now lets get to the [[Test Room]].
what's the blocker?
i have all these systems written down, but idk how to start. i have some placeholder assets, but i was confused as to how i should implement it. 

youre perfection looping. it doesnt matter how the assets are structured. if you had just picked one way, you could've tried both ways and decided by now. by trying to solve it in your mind, you've wasted more time. 
as for the mechanics, just look for a starter template and use it for now. once we have a test room, we can start swapping stuff in and out. the whole point is to experiment. dont experiment in your head. 

- [x] find a starter template
https://github.com/TinyTakinTeller/TakinGodotTemplate

a feature packed plugin. holy shit imagine writing all that yourself. such a time saver. got tons of features.