fuckin hell. these llms make me go in circles. i should learn to eject early.

next would be to 
- [ ] debugger
- [x] linter?
- [x] formatter

then i can finally begin game dev hehe

i dont think i need the debugger right now. 

i think my next main concern in the player controller. 

its a tough problem. i can just code everything in, but it doesnt lead to a good long term solution. and i want the longest term solution. a perfect solution if you will. 

ok so. my current thoughts are with using a state machine. 
it'll act like the brain of the player or npc entity. i can have multiple states there like walk, run, crouch, sit, slide. depending on the state, the state machine can move the player body in corresponding ways. 

so i would also need a body node. it would hold all the parts of the player/npc (need a name for that). it would deal with the physics of it. it would of course hold the actual model as well. i think? no it would, because to move the model, you would want to talk to the node holding the model. 

we have the body and the brain, next we need a soul. ie controller. for npc's it would be the AI part of it, and for player it would be inputs. 

then is the auxilary stuff
audio system. one for sounds, one for voice. 

dialogue system

health system

interaction system. interaction with the world and interaction with other items (guns, weapons, dslr, etc)

camera system. 


---

took a look at cogito again, and man that codebase is an absolute mess. the player script is 1300 lines long. it tries to be modular, but in the end, the player script is doing everything anyway. that's the fate i'm trying to avoid. but i'm afraid the edge cases will have to be resolved somewhere and the player script is the easiest place to put it. i wont know unless i try though. 

---
so here's the player/npc scene 

Player
- Soul 
	- inputs
		- kb
		- mouse
		- controller
	- AI
		- pathfinding
		- following
		- intelligence/strategy (npc)
- Brain (Action State Machine)
	- walk
	- run
	- jump
	- sit
	- crouch
	- slide
	- wallrun
- Body (visuals and physics)
	- model
		- mesh
		- skeleton
		- texture
		- collision
	- animationplayer
	- Health
- Senses
	- Eyes (Camera)
		- 1st Person
		- 2nd Person
		- 3rd Person
	- Tongue (Dialogue)
	- Ears (Audio System client)
	- Nose (detection system)
	- Touch (Interaction system)
	- 6th Sense (External Signals Client)
	- Sense Extention
		- weapons
		- guns
		- items
		- tools
		- 

[[CharacterSystem]]