ok, so i've been exploring the [[TakinGodotTemplate]]

its very complicated. lot of moving parts and a lot of interconnected systems. its best left alone. at least for now. its a great way thing to use when i want to finally publish a game, but it is not something i want when im developing the game. 

i've noted down how to change the game (from what i understand at least)
i should give it a try.


---

ok, after giving a good try, it might be too complicated for a template. yes, it has a lot of features, but the problem is that is has a lot of features.its too annoying to build an entire game in. its too annoying to import a game into. and even then it has a bunch of systems and addons that might collide with the systems the game is using. the scene manager was the worst. just makes it so much more annoying to work in. 

so let me go back and take a look at the other templates. 

the two im looking at is CrystalBit and Maaack's. the main thing with crystal bit is scene management and the main thing with maaack's is menus. however, maaack's can be used in a modular way, and after the fact. 

the question now becomes, what am i looking for in a template anyway? debug tools are helpful. CI/CD might be useful. 

but those are good for longer games. i just want to explore right now. when i decide to make a final game, i'll use those. but i think i've come to a realization that i dont really need a template. if i need anything, im better off looking at individual plugins for solving individual problems. 

ok, so what's next?

i still havent finished a test room. so let's do that. im pretty sure i still have the assets. so im good on that front. so let's look at individual problems. 

first a movement script. i'll stick to first person to make it easier on myself.

i could just go with cogito, but its got too many features, tbh. i'm better off getting lego bricks ready to make my own creations instead of a prebuilt model i edit and extend. 

so i want a simple af fps controller.

alright, i found one.

